# Agenda for GIN Subcommittee meetings, 7th-9th September 2025

## Agenda
1. Progress on using MQTT at Kyoto and Paris
1. Progress on using Seedlink (or MQTT) at Golden
1. Timetable for removal of Rsync transfers between GINs
1. Open issues on GitHub: https://github.com/INTERMAGNET/wg-www-gins-data-formats/issues (NOTE - some of these issues may be of more relevance to the definitive data subcommittee - I've marked these with a (*)):
   1. Propose closing https://github.com/INTERMAGNET/wg-www-gins-data-formats/issues/14, as it has been superseeded by a program of work
   1. Propose closing https://github.com/INTERMAGNET/wg-www-gins-data-formats/issues/13, as it has been superseeded by a program of work
   1. Propose closing https://github.com/INTERMAGNET/wg-www-gins-data-formats/issues/12, as it has been completed and written up here: https://github.com/INTERMAGNET/wg-www-gins-data-formats/tree/master/ImagMQTT
   1. Propose closing https://github.com/INTERMAGNET/wg-www-gins-data-formats/issues/11, I'm not sure what it's trying to achieve
   1. Propose closing https://github.com/INTERMAGNET/wg-www-gins-data-formats/issues/10, unless there's anything to add?
   1. Propose closing https://github.com/INTERMAGNET/wg-www-gins-data-formats/issues/8, as this is complete isn't it?
   1. Propose closing https://github.com/INTERMAGNET/wg-www-gins-data-formats/issues/5 (*), the CDF files distributed by Intermagnet have correct leap seconds, the only remaining issue was an automated check on the CDF leap second update information in the files, but we have not been able to resolve this
1. Open actions from Rio meeting: https://github.com/INTERMAGNET/wg-www-gins-data-formats/blob/master/Meeting_2024-11/GINSubcommitteeMeetingMinutes.md - all items from meetings before Rio have either already been completed or are covered by discussion open issues on GitHub (previous agenda item) and will not be repeated under this item:
   1. [ ] SF to discuss MQTT impementation at the Kyoto GIN with SI.
   1. [ ] VM to investigate new ways of transferring data to the Edinburgh GIN.
   1. [ ] CB to investigate new ways of transferring data to the Edinburgh GIN.
   1. [ ] BG to investigate new ways of transferring data to the Edinburgh GIN.
   1. [ ] SF to update the MQTT documentation with changes to the topic and payload.
   1. [ ] SF to update BGS MQTT software and notify existing MQTT users of topic and payload changes.
   1. [ ] RL to add support for IMPF in MagPy.
   1. [ ] SF to rationalise MQTT and Seedlink documentation
   1. [ ] SF, CB, BG, VM to review GitHub issues.
   1. [ ] SF to organise regular online meetings of the subcommittee.
